K8s post from hera (#949)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-11-02-k8s-to-the-cloud-aws.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Kubernetes To The Cloud With AWS: Deploying a Node.js App to EKS"
author: victory-nwani
by: contractor
communities: [javascript, devops]
description: "Learn how to deploy a secure Node.js application to Amazon EKS"
tags: [kubernetes, devops, docker, aws, javascript, okta]
tweets:
  - "Want to deploy your #NodeJS application to Amazon EKS? Here is how"
  - "How to deploy a secure Node.js app to Amazon EKS with few simple steps"
type: conversion
image: blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/social.jpg
---

> Since 2013 when it was released to the public, Docker has become an industry-standard tool for development teams to package applications into small executable containers. A year later, Kubernetes was released by Google to manage large amounts of containers, and provide features for High Availability (HA) and auto-scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since 2013 when it was released to the public, Docker has become an industry-standard tool for development teams to package applications into small executable containers. A year later, Kubernetes was released by Google to manage large amounts of containers, and provide features for high availability (HA) and auto-scaling.
```
removed capitalization

While Kubernetes adds many benefits to your container management, you might find the process of setting up Kubernetes within your on-premise infrastructure quite challenging, especially on the first try. To overcome this challenge, managed Kubernetes is offered as a service by several cloud service providers.

In this article, you will learn about the services offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS) for using Kubernetes.

{% include toc.md %}

## Prerequisites

This article will walk through the hands-on creation of a Kubernetes cluster to deploy a containerized Node.js application secured with Okta.

To follow along with the cluster creation steps, you will need the following:

- An [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/). Sign up for an account to receive free AWS credits.
- The [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) installed and configured on a local computer.

> - The [eksctl command line tool ](https://eksctl.io/introduction/#installation)installed on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`eksctl` command line tool](https://eksctl.io/introduction/#installation)installed on your local machine.
```
removed extra space. changed eksctl to code markup, since that's what the 'official' site uses.

## Introducing Kubernetes offerings on Amazon

While Kubernetes is open-source and can be used within your on-premise infrastructure, Kubernetes is also cloud-agnostic. Major cloud service vendors provide Kubernetes as a Platform as a Service (PaaS) offering to deploy and scale containerized applications across virtual machines. The Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) from Amazon Web Services is one example of such an offering.

The Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) lets you deploy, run, and scale your containerized application within a Kubernetes cluster consisting of EC2 instances acting as worker nodes. For customers using a hybrid cloud model, the [Amazon EKS Anywhere](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/eks-anywhere/) deployment option allows you to use Kubernetes clusters within a supported on-premise infrastructure.

The Fargate service on AWS also provides cloud customers with the ability to use Kubernetes, but in a serverless manner. When using Fargate, you get to run a pod within a Kubernetes cluster on demand. Fargate helps to reduce the operating cost (OpEx) of your infrastructure as you will only be billed for the pods and not the EC2 instance nodes.

> **Related**: The article, [Deploy a .NET application using AWS Fargate](/blog/2020/06/22/deploy-dotnet-container-aws-fargate) shows a practical use of AWS Fargate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Related**: The article [Deploy a .NET application using AWS Fargate](/blog/2020/06/22/deploy-dotnet-container-aws-fargate) shows a practical use of AWS Fargate.
```
comma removed

In the following sections, we will focus on using Kubernetes through the Elastic Kubernetes Service.

## Understanding the EKS architecture on AWS

The EKS architecture comprises three main components – clusters, nodes, and the Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), which forms the networking aspect. Let's proceed to consider the clusters, and VPC.

### EKS Clusters

An EKS cluster is composed of a control plane and worker nodes residing within a VPC created for the cluster. A cluster's control plane is placed in an AWS-managed account and runs the Kubernetes software. The worker nodes, on the other hand, run in a user's AWS account, and are EC2 instances that connect to the control plane through the [API Server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/) from the Kubernetes software.

> An EKS cluster can be created through several tools such as the [AWS console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/), [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/), [Cloud Formation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/), [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/), or even [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/), as well as other infrastructure as code tools. When using terminal-based tools such as the AWS CLI or eksctl, you provide the properties of the cluster to be created by EKS, either by using a configuration file or through command line arguments. Within the demo section of this article, you will use the eksctl command line tool to create a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An EKS cluster can be created through several tools such as the [AWS console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/), [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/), [Cloud Formation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/), [`eksctl`](https://eksctl.io/), or even [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/), as well as other *infrastructure as code* tools. When using terminal-based tools such as the AWS CLI or `eksctl`, you provide the properties of the cluster to be created by EKS, either by using a configuration file or through command line arguments. Within the demo section of this article, you will use the `eksctl` command line tool to create a cluster.
```
italics for clarity, code markup for eksctl

### The EKS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

An AWS virtual private cloud (VPC) is an isolated virtual network made up of smaller network components such as subnets and internet gateways, amongst others.

A VPC is required for creating a cluster. The VPC is also required to contain subnets within at least two availability zones. These subnets can either be public or private; however, it is recommended to have a combination of public and private subnets so that ingress traffic can be load balanced.

EKS has an uptime [Service Level Agreement](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/sla/) of 99.95%. As one of the strategies to ensure high availability (HA), an Auto Scaling Group can be used within each Availability Zone to monitor the nodes within a cluster, scaling them to meet your application's demands or even restarting them when health probes fail repeatedly.

> ### Creating a Docker Container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a Docker container
```
sentence case

> With the knowledge you now have about EKS, let's use it to create a cluster having a deployment torun the Docker image of a Node.js application secured with Okta. We will reuse the Node.js application that was built for an earlier blog post, ,[Building a Simple Authentication in Express in 15 minutes](/blog/2019/05/31/simple-auth-express-fifteen-minutes). You needonly focus on creating a Docker image of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the knowledge you now have about EKS, let's create a cluster having a deployment to run the Docker image of a Node.js application secured with Okta. We will reuse the Node.js application that was built for an earlier blog post, [Building a Simple Authentication in Express in 15 minutes](/blog/2019/05/31/simple-auth-express-fifteen-minutes). You need only focus on creating a Docker image of the application.
```
extra comma, spacing fixes

The steps outlined below will guide you through building the Docker image of a Node.js app secured with Okta.

> **1.** Open your terminal to execute the [git-clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) command below to clone the Okta-secured Node.js application from the [OktaDevrepository](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example) to your local computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1.** Open your terminal to execute the [`git-clone`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) command below to clone the Okta-secured Node.js application from the [OktaDev repository](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example) to your local computer.
```
spacing, added code markup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example.git
```

> **2.** Using your preferred code editor, open the _okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example_ folder cloned above and create a file named `Dockerfile`. This file will store the steps for building a docker image out of the cloned application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2.** Using your preferred code editor, open the `okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example` folder cloned above and create a file named `Dockerfile`. This file will store the steps for building a docker image out of the cloned application.
```
adding code markup to folder name

Next, paste the code within the code block below into the `Dockerfile`.

```dockerfile
FROM node:alpine

WORKDIR /okta-k8-app

COPY . .

RUN npm install

EXPOSE 3000

CMD exec npm start
```

When the `docker build` command is executed, Docker will perform the following steps to build an image of the application.

- Use `node:alpine` as the base image of the docker image about to be built.
- Set the current working directory to `okta-k8-app`.

> - Copy all the files from the root directory (_okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example_) into the root directory of the docker image being built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy all the files from the root directory (`okta-node-express-15-minute-auth-example`) into the root directory of the docker image being built.
```
added code markup

- Lastly, execute `npm start` command to start the application

**3.** Create another file within the project directory and name it `.dockerignore`. This file will specify other files that should not be copied into the Docker image such as a `.env` file containing sensitive credentials.

Next, add the content of the code block below into the `.dockerignore` file;

```
.git
.env
```

**4.** Execute the docker build command below to build a docker image of the application using the steps in the `Dockerfile` you created above.

The tag `-t` flag specified in the command below will attach a tag of **okta-k8-app** to the docker image about to be built. This tag will come in handy when you run the docker image.

```bash
docker build . -t okta-k8-app
```

**5.** Optionally, create a `.env` file within the project directory to securely store the Okta client credentials.

Please refer to the article, [Build Simple Authentication in Express in 15 Minutes](/blog/2019/05/31/simple-auth-express-fifteen-minutes), to create an Okta application, and retrieve the client credentials for the application through the Okta developer console before proceeding further.

> Add the client credentials retrieved to the `.env` file in the format below; (Make sure there is no whitespace before values.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the client credentials retrieved to the `.env` file in the format below. (Make sure there is no whitespace before values.)
```
punctuation

```
HOST_URL=<OKTA_APP_HOST_URL>
OKTA_ORG_URL=<OKTA_ORG_URL>
OKTA_CLIENT_ID=<OKTA_APP CLIENT_ID>
OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET=<OKTA APP CLIENT_SECRET>
OKTA_TOKEN=<OKTA_APP_TOKEN>
APP_SECRET=<OKTA_APP_SECRET>
```

> **6.** Optionally, execute the docker run command below from your terminal to run the docker image built above. This command will allow you to test the running docker image from your web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**6.** Optionally, execute the `docker run` command below from your terminal to run the docker image built above. This command will allow you to test the running docker image from your web browser.
```
code markup

### Pushing the docker image to the Elastic Container Registry (ECR)

In the last section, you built the docker image for your application. Now you can proceed to create a registry within the Elastic Container Registry, and push the newly created docker image into it.

Execute the `ecr-public` command below to create a public repository within the Elastic Container Registry. The tag flag `--tags` will also attach a tag with a key of environment and value of development to the repository. This command works for the us-east-1 region, but does not work in all AWS regions.

```bash
aws ecr-public create-repository --repository-name okta-k8-ecr-repo --tags Key=environment,Value=development --region us-east-1
```

The command executed above will return a JSON response by default to describe the created repository. Take note of the `repositoryUri` contained in the JSON response, as you will attach a tag containing the `repositoryUri` to the docker image.

{% img blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/3.png alt:"Creating a repository within the Elastic Container Registry" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

Next, execute the docker tag command below to tag the docker image built previously.

> **Note:** Replace the <REPOSITORY_URI> placeholder within the template section in the code block below with the REPOSITORY_URI of the docker image you pushed to the ECR in the format of `<REPOSITORY_URI>:latest` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Replace the <REPOSITORY_URI> placeholder within the template section in the code block below with the REPOSITORY_URI of the docker image you pushed to the ECR in the format of {% raw %}`<REPOSITORY_URI>:latest`{% endraw %}.
```

> **Note:** Replace the <REPOSITORY_URI> placeholder within the template section in the code block below with the REPOSITORY_URI of the docker image you pushed to the ECR in the format of {% raw %}`<REPOSITORY_URI>:latest`{% endraw %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Replace the {% raw %}`<REPOSITORY_URI>`{% endraw %} placeholder within the template section in the code block below with the REPOSITORY_URI of the docker image you pushed to the ECR in the format of <REPOSITORY_URI>`:latest` .
```
code tagging correction on the angle brackets

```bash
docker tag okta-k8-app:latest <REPOSITORY_URI>:latest
```

Execute the command below to authenticate your computer's docker client with your ECR repo through an authentication token.

```bash
aws ecr-public get-login-password --region us-east-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin public.ecr.aws
```

Next, execute the command below to push the tagged docker image to the ECR repository you created.

```bash
docker push <REPOSITORY_URI>
```

{% img blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/4.png alt:"Pushing the app image to the ECR repository" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

### Creating an EKS cluster

> So far, you have pushed a docker image to the Elastic Container Registry. Let's proceed to create a cluster in EKS that will use the docker image you previously pushed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, you have pushed a docker image to the Elastic Container Registry. Let's create a cluster in EKS that will use the docker image you previously pushed.
```
remove extra words

> Use the eksctl CLI tool to create a cluster within EKS. eksctl is a third-party CLI tool written in Go that simplifies the management of EKS clusters by leveraging AWS CloudFormation to manage your cluster and other dependent objects such as VPCs, and subnets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `eksctl` CLI tool to create a cluster within EKS. `eksctl` is a third-party CLI tool written in Go that simplifies the management of EKS clusters by leveraging AWS CloudFormation to manage your cluster and other dependent objects such as VPCs, and subnets.
```

Author: why do we put the noun in code blocks?

Reviewer: I used the pattern that the eksctl website uses here: https://eksctl.io/ - I don't believe there's one true right way, but we should discuss, strive for consistency at least within any given post.

> When creating a cluster, eksctl requires a very minimal configuration. It will attempt to create a cluster using its default values. However, you can specify the cluster configurations as command line arguments to the eksctl command, or more conveniently, specify a YAML file containing your cluster configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a cluster, `eksctl` requires a very minimal configuration. It will attempt to create a cluster using its default values. However, you can specify the cluster configurations as command line arguments to the `eksctl` command, or more conveniently, specify a YAML file containing your cluster configurations.
```

> When the `create cluster` command is executed without a configuration file, eksctl will create the following AWS resources, which the cluster depends on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `create cluster` command is executed without a configuration file, `eksctl` will create the following AWS resources, which the cluster depends on:
```

> - A VPC having two subnets. One is public, the other is a private subnet across three availability zones within the VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A VPC with two subnets. One is public, the other is a private subnet across three availability zones within the VPC.
```
style/usage

- A [node group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html) containing two virtual machines as the worker nodes for the cluster.

> Execute the `create cluster` command below to create a new cluster named okta-k8-cluster within the AWS region specified. This can take a considerable amount of time, so wait until the command is executed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the `create cluster` command below to create a new cluster named `okta-k8-cluster` within the AWS region specified. This can take a considerable amount of time, so wait until the command is executed successfully.
```

**Note**: Replace the `AWS_REGION` placeholder with the region attached to your AWS account. For this tutorial, we are using the us-east-2 region.

```bash
eksctl create cluster --name okta-k8-cluster
```

{% img blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/5.png alt:"Eksctl create cluster command" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

> After the okta-k8-cluster has been created, execute the command to switch your kubectl context to that of the okta-k8-cluster. Executing the command will enable kubectl to connect to your EKS clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the `okta-k8-cluster` has been created, execute the command to switch your `kubectl` context to that of the `okta-k8-cluster`. Executing the command will enable `kubectl` to connect to your EKS clusters.
```

```

{% img blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/6.png alt:"Cluster load balancer resource details" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

**Note:** Take note of the External IP returned among the details of the load balancer above. You will use the External IP in the following steps as an endpoint to access the application.

**2.** Create a file named `secret.yaml`. It will contain the fields for a Kubernetes Secret, storing the Okta credentials. A [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) within Kubernetes is a resource used to store sensitive data such as passwords and API keys that have been excluded from your application code for security reasons.

Replace the `<LOAD_BALANCER_EXTERNAL_IP>` placeholder in the code block below with the External IP value derived from the load balancer details in step 1.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: okta-node-app-secrets
type: Opaque
stringData:
  HOST_URL: http://<LOAD_BALANCER_EXTERNAL_IP>:3000
  OKTA_ORG_URL: <OKTA_ORG_URL>
  OKTA_CLIENT_ID: <OKTA_APP CLIENT_ID>
  OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET: <OKTA APP CLIENT_SECRET>
  OKTA_TOKEN: <OKTA_APP_TOKEN>
  APP_SECRET: <OKTA_APP_SECRET>
```

> Execute the kubectl `create` command below, from the directory where the files are located, to create a Kubernetes Secret using the `secret.yaml` file above. Make sure to replace the placeholders with their actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the `kubectl create` command below, from the directory where the files are located, to create a Kubernetes Secret using the `secret.yaml` file above. Make sure to replace the placeholders with their actual values.
```
code markup

```bash
kubectl create -f secret.yaml
```

**3.** Create a `deployment.yaml` file and add the content of the code block below to define the properties of a deployment resource type.

> The configuration file contains three parts that define a deployment. The metadata defines the resource information, and the spec defines the number of pods to be created, the docker image to run within the pods, and a network port within the container to expose. The deployment will also mount the volume for the Kubernetes Secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration file contains three parts that define a deployment. The metadata defines the resource information; the spec defines the number of pods to be created, the docker image to run within the pods, and a network port within the container to expose. The deployment will also mount the volume for the Kubernetes Secrets.
```
punctuation

                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: HOST_URL
            - name: OKTA_ORG_URL
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: OKTA_ORG_URL
            - name: OKTA_CLIENT_ID
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: OKTA_CLIENT_ID
            - name: OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET
            - name: OKTA_TOKEN
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: OKTA_TOKEN
            - name: APP_SECRET
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: okta-node-app-secrets
                  key: APP_SECRET
```

Execute the kubectl create command below to create the deployment resource using the content of the configuration file above.

```bash
kubectl create -f deployment.yaml
```

### Modifying Okta client credentials

> At this point, the okta-k8-cluster is almost ready for use. You've created a load balancer and a deployment resource. However, before a user can be fully authenticated through the Node.js application running within the cluster, you have to update the `redirect_uri` within the Okta credentials to point to the load balancer for the `okta-k8-cluster`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the `okta-k8-cluster` is almost ready for use. You've created a load balancer and a deployment resource. However, before a user can be fully authenticated through the Node.js application running within the cluster, you have to update the `redirect_uri` within the Okta credentials to point to the load balancer for the `okta-k8-cluster`.
```

Navigate to your Okta Developer Console and click on the application we're using for this tutorial.
{% img blog/k8s-to-the-cloud-aws/7.png alt:"Okta console application general settings" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

In the **LOGIN**, section, click the **Add URI** button within the **Sign-in redirect URIs** subsection to add a new URI that will be used when initiating an authentication process. Add the load balancer external IP into the input field in the format below, replacing the `LOAD_BALANCER_EXTERNAL_IP` with your cluster load balancer's external IP.

```
http://LOAD_BALANCER_EXTERNAL_IP:3000/callback
```

> Next click the **Add URI** button within the **Sign-out redirect URIs** subsection to add a new URI that will be used when signing out of the application. Add the load balancer external IP in into the input field in the format below;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next click the **Add URI** button within the **Sign-out redirect URIs** subsection to add a new URI that will be used when signing out of the application. Add the load balancer external IP in the input field in the format below:
```
remove extra word, punctuation

### More resources for Kubernetes on AWS

In this article, we covered basic aspects of the Elastic Kubernetes Service on AWS. You created an EKS cluster with a deployment and a service that uses the Docker image of a Node.js application.

Although this article did not focus on testing the scalability of the EKS cluster, you also created a load balancer within the ELB service to handle incoming traffic to the nodes within the cluster. Congratulations!

Want to continue learning about Kubernetes, infrastructure, security, auth, identity, and related topics? Here are some resources from the Okta Developer blog you might be interested in:

- [Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks)
- [The Top 5 DevOps Automation Tools .NET Developers Should Know](/blog/2019/07/02/aspnet-top-5-devops-automation-tools-dotnet-csharp-developers)
- [An Overview of Best Practices for Security Headers](/blog/2021/10/18/security-headers-best-practices)

You can find the code for this tutorial on GitHub at: [https://github.com/oktadev/okta](https://github.com/oktadev/okta)

> If you liked this tutorial, chances are you like others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you liked this tutorial, you might like to explore others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.
```
```suggestion
If you liked this tutorial, you might enjoy exploring new content as it is published. Please follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.
```
tone tweak
